Slide 1:
Goodafternoon everyone and welcome to my presentation on the topic

Slide 2:
Interconnectedness and Mutual Fulfilment

Slide 3:
So, what is it?
Interconnectedness says that all orders of nature are connected to each other and are mutually fulfilling each other.
A human is related to all other human beings
on this basis, we have emotions for everyone.
A human being is also connected to all the other material units in existance and gets aware of it as he starts exploring it.

Slide 4:
There are four orders of nature
Material order
Pranic order
Animal Order
and Human order
Material order consists of: soil,water,metals and minerals
Pranic order: Plants and trees
Animal Order: Animals and birds
Human order: Human beings
Let us look at the first three orders, namely material, pranic and animal order. we can easily see that they are interconnected. and the relationship between these orders is in such a way that they fulfill each other and coexist with each other.

We humans also have a natural acceptance to be mutually fulfilling to these three orders.
However, we are not able to ensure this mutual fulfillment.
We are dependent on the material order for soil, minerals and metals, but end up polluting the soil and depleting the fossil fuels.
We are dependent on plants for our food and holding together the larger ecosystem, but we have destroyed multiple species of plants and herbs.
we are dependent on animals to carry out production and transportation activities, but we have made many animal species extinct, and we are today knwon for our cruelty towards animals.
Consequently, we have disturbed ourselves and also the balance among the other three orders. The effect of this disharmony is now affecting our lives in the form of diseases and maladies.

Slide 5:
About Mutual fulfilment
Mutual fulfilment refers to happiness
which is one of our basic aspirations.
Happiness is ensured by the relationships with other human beings.
Relationships refer to the interpersonal relations that a person builds in their life, at home, at work or in society.
But today we are unable to have fulfilling relationships all the time
if there is a problem in our relationship, we feel uneasy and it bothers us.
Even if we are interacting with someone, and something we said or did offends them, it makes us uneasy; i.e. we want mutual fulfilment in relationship.
The reason behind these problems is that we have to focus on one more aspect, i.e. right understanding.
Lets see more about right understanding.

Slide 6:
Right understanding is a higher order human skill.
it is the need to learn and utilize our intelligence most effectively.
In order to resolve issues in relationships, we need to understand them first, and this comes from right understanding of relationships.
with nature as well we need to understtand the harmony in nature and how we can complement this harmony.
So we can say that when we use right understanding with relationships it gives us mutual fulfilment because if we have right understanding, then we can be happy with ourselves.
and work to have fulfiling relationships with humans.
if we do not have the right understanding, then we have problems.
Thus, our happiness depends on the fulfilment of these basic requirements.
Right understanding with relationships which gives us mutual fulfilment
and
Right understanding with physical facilities which gives us mutual prosperity.
both of which are our basic human aspirations.


Slide 7:
Lets quickly recap
There are four order of nature: Material pranic animal and human
Interconnectedness says that all orders are connected and are fulfilling each other
Mutual fulfilment is happiness
and it is our basic aspiration.
and
Happiness is achieved by good relationships along with Right understanding.

Slide 8:
And that is all for today.